# Moretti and Drucker in Context
### by Argha Ghosh Dastidar

In their articles Franco Moretti and Johanna Drucker make an excellent case about incorporating different forms of media in humanistic scholarship. Although arguing for the same cause the proposal for its implementation vary considerably between the two. Moretti proposes interpretations of graphs that challenges the understandings of written works while Drucker finds the data provided in graphs are misrepresentative of the data needed by humanistic scholars as it lacks a subjective nature. While both articles address separate important issues regarding the study of humanities, their propositions are lackluster (Drucker, "Humanities Approaches to Graphical Display"; Moretti, 68). What is needed here is a middle ground for these ideas which are at the opposite ends of the problem to consolidate on to give definitive answers which is the main purpose of scholarship. I have found this common ground to be context. While researching anything we create a thesis and we make arguments relevant to it within reason, anything falling subpar this fair standard we disregard. Similarly, in the study of humanistic scholarship we must study all modes relevant to a piece of work within reason. The ideas of Moretti and Drucker fall short of context which I shall elaborate on to help balance the two paradigms and identify a unique method of study in humanistic scholarship.

We begin with Moretti who argues that graphs representing data about a particular work should be interpreted as they may provide an insight that challenges what we have construed of the work so far (91). While this is accurate, he then tries to attribute the interpretation to a single event. For example, Moretti states “ the reason behind the downturns seems to be always the same: politics: a direct, virulent censorship during the Kansei and Tempo periods, and an indirect influence in the years leading up to the Meiji Restoration, when there was no specific repression of the book trade, and the crisis was thus probably due to a more general dissonance between the rhythm of political crises and the writing of novels" (72). While he does try to contextualize the problem, he casts a wide net with his assumption which could lead to a misrepresentation of the situation and a misunderstanding in humanistic scholarship. Building on the idea of generational shift presented by Moretti, if for instance such an occurrence presented itself at the beginning of the Kansei and Tempo periods then it may have exacerbated the problem or shared equal blame (83). It would be in a humanist scholar’s best interest to consider as many variables as possible before making attributions to be best representative of the work.

For Drucker the issue is of inconclusiveness. Drucker argues that data, for the purpose of humanistic scholarship, at its raw stage should be subjective and should hold interpretation ("Humanities Approaches to Graphical Display"). However, the goal of any study is to get a definitive answer to a question. Therefore, there must be a limit to the subjectivity of data given the sheer volume of opinions. In her argument Drucker uses the example of the gender spectrum which exemplifies her point brilliantly ("Humanities Approaches to Graphical Display"). Using the same idea now imagine we conduct a survey taking gender identity into factor we now encounter a person who wholeheartedly identifies themselves as part alien. While the claim maybe worthy of exploration it doesn’t fit our understanding of gender identity and may even be a false claim. This person also gives you their whole life story which is something you didn’t need for the survey. Similarly, for a piece of work it is necessary to know when claims need to be investigated further and what aspects of the subjective data are needed to provide a comprehensive answer to the question. Therefore, while data in its raw for should be subjective its subjectivity should be measured in the context of its setting.

The article “Modelling in digital humanities: Signs in context” written by Arianna Ciula and Oyvind Eide best describes the above point. In their article Ciula and Eide examine digital humanities models as signs of their real-world counterparts and the role of context between the two (33). Their use of semiotics for this purpose is to find to what extent the model functions as a representative of its counterpart to better understand the effectiveness of its study (Ciula and Eide, 34). In their conclusion statement they state that “Our examples showed how the relationship of iconicity between the model and the object being modelled is partly extrinsically determined (it relies on the similarity between the model and the object) and partly guided by intrinsic choices (it depends on theory, conventions, imaginative associations, and prior knowledge). Indeed we showed how the inferential power operates at the interplay between their ‘intrinsic structure’ and their ‘extrinsic mapping'" (Ciula & Eide, 43). The inferential power stated here is judgement in the case of Moretti and Drucker to allow or exclude certain pieces of data that fit the context.

Context is an important factor which can be noticed in the articles of Moretti, Drucker, and Ciula and Eide as well. Represented in the graph below is a contextual look at each of the articles. 

<iframe style='width: 808px; height: 1008px;' src='processing/index.html'> </iframe>

In terms of Multimodal representation of DH all articles hold similar weights in the conversation. However, each discusses a different aspect of the topic. Drucker holds the most weight in Subjectivity of data, Moretti then takes her place in New Interpretations from Models of digital humanities works, and Ciula and Eide dominate the conversation about Process and structures of creating models. As the industry grows it becomes more complex and to avoid falling behind we must keep up to date by asking comprehensive questions and giving definitive answers for which context is key. 

<h6 align="center"> Works Cited</h6>
Ciula, Ariana and Eide, Oyvind. "Modelling in digital humanities: Signs in context." <em>Digital cholarship in the Humanities,</em> vol.    32, suppl. 1, 2017, pp.33-46
